Next up I want to continue talking about four of we'll see another example and we'll also talk about
situations when it doesn't help you and you might actually prefer a standard for loop even if it's longer
and uglier.
Here I have a simple two dimensional array.
It's representing a magic square.
I don't know if you've seen them before.
It's a square of numbers a grid where each row sums to some number.
In this case 15 so you can see all of them sum to 15 each vertical so each column also sums to 15 and
each diagonal sums to 15.
If it's a correct magic square.
Now we're not going to write code to verify every single direction but if I wanted to just sum each
row and verify that they equal 15 using a for loop regular for loop it's kind of annoying let I equals
zero.
I'm going to have to do a nested loop I less than magic square dot length and then I plus plus and that's
going to get me each row one row at a time.
So then I need to loop again to get those innards.
Each element in the row.
And what I'd like to do is make a variable called row and just set it equal to magic square of I.
So now row in this loop is going to refer to one of these nested arrays and then I'll loop over row.
So for let's j equals zero J less than road out length J plus plus and then for each J we could start
by just constant logging J.
To make sure it works does it work.
OK.
So kind of we're printing out the indices we need row of J.
And now we're getting those numbers.
But I want to sum them together three at a time each element or all elements in one of those rows.
I want to sum them together and print out ideally 15.
So what I'm going to do is make another variable up top called Sum so not all the way up top.
But each time through the loop the outer loop I want to reset it to zero because I'm looping over this
summing them together.
But the next time this outer loop goes it iterate I want it to start again at zero so I can sum these
up without having the previous sum in there as well.
And then I would just do some plus equals row of J.
And then after this inner loop I could control that log sum.
I'll probably do row added two on not just add a whole row right there summed to.
And then dollars on some.
Let's see it we get to seven six up to 15 seven to 15.
Okay.
So this is okay with a regular for loop but if we instead rewrote it using a for of loop I think it's
much cleaner we would just do for that row of magic square.
We'd still make our some variable let's some equals zero and then for let's let's go with NUM element
I'll just go with it num I think that's fine of row.
So I don't have to make the second variable here.
I don't have to use I or J just for let row I have access to row in here row refers to each individual
nested array.
Each row then for letting some of those rows of each row I'm going to some plus equals now and then
I'll copy this line here.
This council that logged down below I'll comment out that original one with the for loop and we get
the exact same output but this is much cleaner and easier to see and understand.
So that's an example where a four of really helps.
And I also wanted to show a nested example.
Now here's another example where it's actually not to your advantage to use for.
I have two arrays of strings words one in words two I want to loop over the first array and for each
element I want to also print out the corresponding element from words to so mailbox milkshake bathtub
and BlackBerry using a for a traditional for loop is the way to go because I need to have an index I
need to know which number we're printing out or which index we're accessing in words 1.
So I can do the same thing in words too if instead I did a for loop I would have each value mail and
milk but I wouldn't have that number that index to access the corresponding value from words to.
So I do want a regular for loop here.
Let I equals zero I less than words one dot length I plus plus.
And then I'll just simply consider log words one of I comma words two of the same.
I so I will be zero words one of zero alpha male words two of zero bucks.
Let's test it out.
Mailbox milkshake bathtub BlackBerry.
Technically if I wanted to be one word I could use back ticks interpolate each one.
Do it again maybe add a hyphen.
I don't know if they're supposed to be hyphenated.
We'll just do one word.
Same thing here.
Okay so now we should just get one word if we tried to do this with a for of loop.
It would not be easy at all.
We would have to use four of on this first loop and then work backwards to figure out what number what
index is male at what index is milk at.
We could do something like index of and then get that number and then take that number and plug it plug
it into words to which is just not ideal.
So my point here is that four of his great a lot of the time and it's really common just to need the
data in an array or a string.
But if you need to care about the index that position like we did here then it's not going to work out
for you or it won't be as easy as it would be to just generate those indices using a traditional for
loop instead.